Update performance docs (#361)
transparency-dev/trillian-tessera: docs/performance.md

# Tessera Storage Performance

> Tessera is designed to scale up and down to meet the needs of most currently envisioned workloads in a cost-effective manner.

Reviewer: Do you mean scale out and in instead of up and down unless only one instance is allowed?

Reviewer 2: I would just say that it is designed to be scalable. Whether scaling is done automatically and whether that's horizontally/vertically is outside the scope of this introductory sentence, IMO.

> All storage backends currently implemented have been tested to meet the write-throughput of CT-scale loads without issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All storage backends have been tested to meet the write-throughput of CT-scale loads without issue.
```

Cleaner and I think equivalent.

The read API of Tessera based logs scales extremely well due to the immutable resource based approach used, which allows for:
1. Aggressive caching to be applied, e.g. via CDN
2. Horizontal scaling of read infrastructure (e.g. object storage)[^1]

[^1]: The MySQL storage backend is different to the others in that reads must be served via the personality rather than directly,
      however, due to changes in how MySQL is used compared to Trillian v1, read performance should be far better, and _could_ still
      be scaled horizontally with additional MySQL read replicas & read-only personality instances.

Below are some indicative figures which show the rough scale of performance we've seen from deploying Tessera conformance
binaries in various environments.

## Performance factors

### Resources

Exact performance numbers are highly dependent on the exact infrastructure being used (e.g. storage type & locality, host resources
of the machine(s) running the personality binary, network speed and weather, etc.)  If in doubt, you should run your own performance
tests on infrastructure which is as close as possible to that which will ultimately be used to run the log in production.

> The [conformance binaries](/cmd/conformance) and [hammer tool](/internal/hammer) may be helpful for running such tests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [conformance binaries](/cmd/conformance) and [hammer tool](/internal/hammer) are designed for this kind of performance testing.
```

### Deduplication

Deduplicating incoming entries is a somewhat expensive operation in terms of both storage and throughput.

> Not all personality designs will require it, so Tessera is build such that you only incur these costs if they are necessary

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Not all personality designs will require it, so Tessera is built such that you only incur these costs if they are necessary
```

for your design.

Leaving deduplication disabled will greatly increase the throughput of the log, and decrease CPU and storage costs.

## Backends

The currently supported storage backends are listed below, with a rough idea of the expected performance figures.
Individual storage implementations may have more detailed information about performance in their respective directories.

### GCP

The main lever for cost vs performance on GCP is Spanner, in the form of "Performance Units" (PUs).
PUs can be allocated in blocks of 100, and 1000 PUs is equivalent to 1 Spanner Server.

The table below shows some rough numbers of measured performance:

> | Spanner PUs | Num FEs | QPS no-dedup | QPS dedup |

Reviewer 2: It's a bit odd that we're publishing the number for dedup when this code isn't availale for usage right now?

Author: I'll raise a PR with that code so folks can reproduce.
